This is a mirror of http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=1581

Now requires Vim 7.1 version.

Lookupfile is a very simple approach to opening files by typing a pattern to
represent the file you are looking for, and selecting a file from the completion
dropdown to open in the current Vim session. It provides a consistent interface
to lookup files by various means (tags, path, buffers, external tools etc.). It
uses the new Vim7 insert-mode completion mechanism to show matching files.

The most part of the plugin is autoloaded so it doesn't increase the startup time and doesn't take up Vim resources until it is used for the first time.

Here are the list of commands that the plugin defines:
        LookupFile      Lookup files from tag files. This is a like a fast GNU
                        find on name. It can lookup files from any Vim
                        compatible tag file (which includes those from ctags),
                        but at the moment it is advisable to generate
                        specialized tag files using :find command (see
                        |lookupfile-tags|).
        LUPath          Lookup files from 'path' using |globpath()|. The :find
                        command while being able to lookup files from 'path', it
                        doesn't provide any completion mechanism, and it is
                        clumsy when there are multiple files with the same name.
                        The :find command doesn't even accept a pattern.
        LUBufs          Lookup loaded files (buffers) using |bufname()|. This is
                        a great addition to whatever buffer-explorer you are
                        using. When there are too many buffers open, this
                        sometimes makes it easy to find the right buffer, by
                        typing part of its name.
        LUWalk          Lookup files using |glob()|. This works like the Emacs
                        ido.el, allowing you to walk up and down a path looking
                        for files. If you use the filename completion with :edit
                        command, then you will find this a lot more convenient
                        and faster to use.
        LUArgs          Lookup files from |:args| list.

It is also very easy to add new commands to or customize the plugin at various
levels. At the simplest, you can create custom command on top of the above that
either pass dynamic arguments or tmporarily change the settings (e.g., you could
have a command that will start LUPath with the 'path' temporarily changed to
find only the include header files). You can also take advantage of the the
|lookupfile-extend| features to add new commands that lookup files from a
completely new source. You can even add commands that lookup something
completely different than a file (like e.g., a spelling using spellsuggest()).

For more information install the plugin and type :h lookupfile after running :heptags command.

Here is what users have to say about the plugin:
    - I am thoroughly enjoying your lookupfile script -- it's just awesome! -- Reva Revadigar (regarding :LookupFile and :LUWalk commands)
    - I use Lookupfile a couple of hundred times a day -- Max Dyckhoff (regarding :LookupFile command)
    - I tried the new plugin. Excellent! Exactly what I want. -- Eddy Zhao (regarding :LUWalk command)



Search_Key_Words: lookupfile util utils lookup complete completion filename open edit file tags path ctags glob globpath Hari Krishna Dara
